hope everyone's had a great show we have
three esteemed cro from the stage 2 LP
base and we're going to talk about the
pivotal moments in their current
companies on what actually caused this
to happen on revenue from three great
companies before we do that I'll let
each each individual give a quick
introduction Dan you want to start hi
everybody I'm deie meta I have spent
majority of my career in startups just
building and scaling different Revenue
ORS of all shapes and sizes most
recently I was the cro at Lattis which
is a people management platform in the
HR Tech space I joined the company when
we were about 3 million in revenue and
helped scale it past 100 million good
morning everyone I'm Kate alling I'm
currently Chief Revenue officer at kenle
prior to Kenly I had a good eight and a
half year run at a company called glass
store where we GL Grew From about 10
million to into the hundreds of millions
during that time career making
experience of a lifetime and before that
I had a series of sales and go to market
leadership positions at software and
tech companies and hard to believe I've
been doing this for two decades now and
it's good to be with you hi everyone I'm
Mark whan I'm the chief Revenue officer
at box I've been with the company for
four years and before that I was C at
tanium a Enterprise security company and
then before that 10 years at Salesforce
a few years at Gartner and started 30
years ago just across the highway
selling hardware for Northern Telecom
great to be here with you all thank
you all right excited to dig in and
learn but Denny starting out lattice I
know you came in really early you want
to paint that picture and there was that
was your pivotal moment you want to tell
us what you did there yeah totally that
was one of the pivotal moments so taking
it back I joined we were about 3 million
in Revenue about 40 folks in the company
the go to market team was about 10
people
sales was about seven people so really
early days and I was hired cuz we were
seeing a little bit of softening in our
new business growth folks weren't
hitting quota and was brought on to help
diagnose what's going on and help us
scale the business I get there and I'd
seen the numbers in terms of the output
but what I couldn't connect the dots on
was all the activity that was happening
on the ground reps were taking four to
six calls a day they were doing lots of
demo volume so we had top of the funnel
volume that was one thing that was like
interesting there's a lot of volume but
it's not we're not seeing the output two
we were closing really small deals like
$1,200 deals on one end and we were also
talking to really large companies like
hundreds of thousands of employees in
both ends of the spectrum we had
interest which was great for a product
Market fit but clearly from a go toar
market execution standpoint we weren't
focused where we were spending time
closing th000 annual de Ys and also
talking to these really large companies
and the third phenomena that I saw was
we had a product Le growth flow on our
website where you could go to the
website buy lattice for your team and
run with it awesome but we also had a
sales team that was out in Market
selling the full solution wall to
organizations and so there's a bunch of
stuff happening the good news was
there's a lot of activity and we had a
lot of initiatives in play Bad News it
wasn't really driving the results we
wanted and so I came in and after
looking at the data around churn looking
at the data around usage talking to some
customers learning more about the
Persona made a few key changes which was
nerve-wracking at the time because I was
like one month in coming in here with
all these let's make all these changes
but it just felt right talking to folks
and looking at the data we said we're
going to put a minimum in place we're
not going to sell to anyone under
$4,000 so like that was the first thing
I did which everyone's what in the sales
team like how are we going to get to our
numbers like most of my deals and demos
are coming from that early stage folks
and we knew that those people aren't
getting the value out of lattice today
based on the numbers so we said all
right we're going to put a minimum in
place two we're going to pause on the
full product Le growth motion let people
come in and experience the product but
we're going to sell through our sales
team we've got a sales team here the
best way a customer finds value on
lattice is by using the full product and
so we're going to focus in there and
then three we defined our ICP we said
here's the types of organizations that
see value in lattice we've got limited
resources we've got a small team and we
really have to focus in because the
opportunity cost it's very tempting when
you're a startup to do everything in
early days you have to cuz you're
testing a bunch of stuff but at some
point to drive operational excellence
you've really got to focus in and so we
said we're going to focus in on this is
our ICP put a minimum contract track
size in place and put pause on plg and
all of a sudden people's calendars went
from six calls to two calls a day still
a lot for two new business calls a day
it's like very healthy volume which was
okay we got to add more capacity um and
all of a sudden even though the activity
dropped we started to see productivity
go up beautiful okay I'm going to come
back to you with a quick one I'm like
how did you know from the close rate
that it wasn't working those six
meetings cuz I think a lot of Founders
are like what my funnel even look like
and then also how you actually Define
the ICP okay but before I do that I want
to highlight a couple points from Denny
that we see a lot first off stopping plg
okay that's always a question it's like
you're going to Market should we do plg
or not that's a tough question if you
ever have a question about that it's a
good idea to give it a shot and because
you could always kill it later and
basically like the reason it probably
didn't work is there needs to be a low
time time and effort to Value use case
and lce is like an operating system it's
not something like a single person's
going to download and start using it
like a Dropbox or a cly and so like
intuitively there was probably a big
question there but regardless they
didn't waste their time by trying it
they found out that it wasn't working
and what did they end up with they ended
up with a really easy to use product
great let's switch to sales lad okay the
the second point I want to highlight
that we see a lot at this stage that Dy
did a great job on is the segmentation
of the sales people it's totally cool to
come out of the gate and sell to a lot
of different people you don't know what
your vision is going to stick with but a
year later you start to get a sense and
we when we walk into organizations and
you have five salespeople and all those
salese are selling $3,000 ACV deals and
$100,000 ACV deals that's not going to
work like usually sellers are tuned for
one way or the other and so that was an
obvious change that Denny did a great
job on that we see at that particular
stage so let me come back to you with
those two follow-ons a lot of Founders
are like how do I know what a good close
rate is and you said that these they
were doing five or six meetings a day
but you weren't seeing yield what was
the actual numbers yeah I think early on
our close rates were like 20% 15 to 20%
and then we changed made the change and
it bumped up doubled went to 40% crazy
and do you remember the CAC what was the
old CAC and what was the okay that's
okay yeah and I think what's really
crazy is as we started adding capacity
everybody on the sales team is like we
can add more capacity my leads are going
to go to new folks my here my calendar's
going to get emptier and the wind rate
continued to creep up nice cuz they just
had more time per op and so you were
going deeper with customers these were
quality customers we were really
optimizing for that op cost cool okay
and then so the other common thing we
see is now is a time to refine your ice
I spoke spoke about this yesterday is a
lot of Founders try to sell a big
product to everyone out of the gate
because they raise venture capital and
that's what the VCS want to see but as
VCS we just want to see the vision
toward it we don't want to see you boil
the ocean out of the gate it's much
better find the best Market to get to
five or 10 million so how did you go
through that process of defining the ICP
yeah we looked at our existing customers
that were power users so really high
usage they were renewing these were
raving fans they love the product they
were giving us feedack fact really
helping us build a better version of the
product every month and so we said okay
who are these folks and then we defined
it off of that and said we're just going
to focus in here and yes there's a lot
of interest in a lot of different places
but if we do that there's boom Allstar
cuz most people when they do that they
look at the close rate and the CAC no
you want to look at where you're
creating customer value to drive that
decision okay thank you so much jny all
right so related to plg a lot of people
are trying it and at some point you get
so big that's hey can we sell big deals
now and that's what really Kate did at
Cy you want to talk us through that Kate
yeah absolutely so when I joined cenly
we had just completed our series B we
took 300 million in Venture and we were
at about 100 million in ARR so it was
the point where we were thinking about
kind of the next great growth Horizon
and we had some data that showed that
teams were interested in using the
product so if you're familiar with Cen
Le it's scheduling automation Our Roots
are in plg and predominantly in the
beginning it was solar preneurs
prosumers and small smbs that were
coming through the funnel what we
identified as a pattern where there were
some key use cases that emerged so it
was quite a horizontal product but these
use cases began to show up prolifically
and so the use cases make sense if you
think about the folks in your
organizations that do the most
scheduling its sales its customer
success and its recruiting so as we
began to work with these customers folks
in those use cases started to ask us for
deeper and richer solutions that were
integrated into their
workflows making it easier for large
teams at large organizations to stay in
their Stacks but also use Kenly and so
from an R&D perspective we made
investments in what we call vertical
solutions to support that and what
happened is the composition of our
funnel began to change we started to see
it administrators show up in the funnel
we started to see line of Business
Leaders and revops leaders show up in
the funnel and in response to that we
had a small But Mighty group of inbound
sellers who could take a high intent
lead and convert it but to take a high
intent lead from a large company and
turn it into a large deal we identified
this was just going to Simply Be a
different skill set and we made the jump
to invest in Enterprise and so what I'll
share with you though is it's not just
about hiring Enterprise salespeople yes
that's part of it in my experience both
at glassor and at cenly there's an
enterpris ification that needs to happen
across your org to really be ready for
this and I just have this simple
framework in my head that goes product
people process so from a product
standpoint you might think you have
product Market fit but selling to large
companies is different you have to have
the right security and administrative
features and requirements it's just far
more intense to support a larger
organization than it is to support a
midsize organization from a people
standpoint do you have the right profile
at Kenly we had to go out and hire a
different profile not just in sales but
in CS in in less intuitive parts of the
company like in marketing as an example
in the early days marketers just buy you
leads and as you progress into the
Enterprise you need Solutions marketers
you need collateral you need selling
tools to support the sales team and
that's a different skill set that's
required in marketing so just some
examples of how the composition of the
team and the folks that you need to
bring in change too and then from a
process standpoint you have to sincerely
be ready to invest in Enterprise sales
and build infrastructure to make sure
that these relatively expensive
salespeople can be successful so you
have to build rev UPS add some
enablement resources deals desk legal in
in kind of the early days of exploring
Enterprise getting an Enterprise company
to commit to investing in you is like
literally less than half the battle
getting through monstrous msas getting
through infosec questionnaires and
getting through the paper process C at
these organizations really becomes the
challenge and what's required is a whole
bunch of infrastructure to support your
sellers in completing those tasks so if
you think about across all of those
things you have to be really ready to
Enterprise your company and it takes
sincere investment and you have to be
prepared and model the return that you
think you're going to get from those
things which is what we did at Cy all
driven by kind of this need from teams
to have more vertical Solutions all
right beautiful a ton of stuff to recap
there my two follow on so you can think
about them because I just we're going to
live this right so what do you look for
an Enterprise rep compared to midmarket
and then we're going to talk about the
PLT plg trap and I want to get your take
on that so just to recap Kate's
experience um first off lot this is a
common like blueprint you Start SMB it's
not a good idea to start selling to the
Enterprise unless you have to it's just
just a long slog so it's good to start
S&B mid-market you hit 10 15 20 million
lots of times going Upstream is a great
way to go now do not come into the Year
and be like okay cool we're going to go
from 15 to 30 and oh man our regular
funnel only gets us from to 15 to 25 I
have an idea let's go upstream and tell
the board we're going upstream and let's
commit to 5 million no this is a long
journey we have to hire new reps that's
going to take 3 months they have to on
board two months build pipeline 6 months
so this is like a a test that's being
done and you want to be testing this
before you need it okay and so that's
number one number two is it is a test
because you have to refine product
Market fit don't let your ego get in
front of this is not going to translate
that easily Upstream it's almost like
the beginning days again so give
yourself that time the other thing I
commonly see that happened with Kate and
and cley I think to some degree is
inbound is probably not going to drive
Enterprise like it's really rare to get
an inbound lead and be like and then
three months later oh we have a million
dollar account it's it's cool there's
little triggers happening but this is
very much like account-based marketing
account-based selling there's dozens of
people who are going to influence the
sale and someone we're coming inbound
and you're going outbound and it's like
really moving this Boulder along okay so
let's come back to First Enterprise rep
because that's key is we got to hire our
first two what's the difference between
hiring a mid-market versus an Enterprise
rep yeah I think it starts with it
starts with having the right ICP so when
we say Enterprise you immediately go to
the 20,000 person company and for us
Enterprise was mid-market and the lower
Enterprise segment and so you're looking
for reps who have done these deals let's
say $30 to $50,000 deal sizes have a
handful of years of experience doing
that and the big key that we needed to
find and transition our org to was team
members who had experience value selling
often you'll inherit an org of very
well-intentioned smart Scrappy people
who are selling features and functions
because of your plg roots it's hey just
show them the product get them into the
product they'll convert selling to a
different buyer a line of business owner
a key business stakeholder in these
larger organizations takes a completely
different motion you have to talk about
business value and be able to make a
business case for the value that your
solution creates for their organization
completely different skill set so we
really tested for that primarily in our
hiring profile another really cool work
that happened that's relevant here by
one of our other LPS Oliver J OJ was the
one of the early repit Dropbox to take
them into the commercial world and he
was the founding CR at AA and he has
written a work called the plg Trap which
is quite instructive for early stage plg
companies which says like your ability
to sell an Enterprise
deal like you you learn very little from
your plg experience cuz the plg product
was built for the end user but an
Enterprise sale has to really hone in on
the sea level decisionmaker and and
rarely do those customer value props
match up so you have to have that sort
of vision and strategic mindset from the
beginning is is this going to create a
stepping stone for us to have a customer
value prop that also resonates with the
SE Suite did that happen at County yeah
and we're still in process of I think
that's a continuous Improvement project
for us one of the things that I'll
highlight is it's different for product
too it's not just your Revenue
organization and how they go and talk to
customers your product teams have to
think about a different customer too
because your as Mark said your user is
not your buyer and so going out and
meeting with different types of
customers is really important for the
product team and I think as a cro you
have to be able to influence your
product team in that direction just as
one example our executive buyers want to
see quantifiable analytics and results
what productivity do you drive how do
you improve my Revenue outcomes and so
part of what we did across cenly was
begin to invest in analytics so that we
could tell a better story around the ROI
of investing in scheduling automation so
it's just like one of these examples of
how the entire or has to go with you on
the Enterprise Journey great thank you
Kate all right let's finish up with Mark
so Mark's going to talk about being cro
and walking into a company that's having
a little bit of a churn issue and
unfortunately that's happened with a lot
of companies right now whenever there's
volatility in a macro environment that
typically leads to churn and I can't
think in my career of like 30 years a
time of like worse churn everyone's
remote we change our value prop and then
all of a sudden the as a grow atall cost
situation in in Tech and we're selling
into that and then that changes
overnight and now it's all about
efficiency and that that just leads to a
lot of customers that signed up for
something that is no longer relevant in
a very short period of time so there's a
lot of companies going through this and
Mark has coming into box and done a
great job can you walk us through that
story Mark yeah sure I joined the
company four years ago we were about 600
million in Revenue four or five years
past the IPO and as a subscription
business you're always growing but the
rate of growth was not where we wanted
it to be and generally when a companies
bringing in new VPS sales or a new cro
they think they have a sales problem and
very often they do and and we did have
sales problems we we still have sales
problems we're still working on them
right now but what I found after I
arrived is that we had a churn problem
that was I would say like on the
unhealthy range and I think the thing
that we did as a team was really
understanding why we had a churn problem
and when we went from the ocean to the
bay to the rivers to the lakes to the
streams up to the snow pack when we got
to the snow pack we found that we had a
product problem and so we made some
changes to the product we made a number
of Acquisitions we changed pricing and
packaging we changed messaging and
positioning and when we did that
alongside all the improvements that we
made in the sales organization then the
growth returned and we had dramatic
improvements in churn and it's much
easier to sell to an installed customer
than to a net new customer and so when
you churn a dollar if you look at what
your net retention rate is if you're
110% if you're 120 you didn't just lose
a dollar you lost $120 when you turn
that installed customer if you have a
leaky bucket if you're a really high
Growth Company you might be able to
outrun it but if your growth is we're
rule of 40 Dynamics we're more balanced
in terms of growth and profitability if
you're not growing at 40% on new ARR you
just can't afford to have a leaky bucket
and that's really the thing that we did
as a company is get the whole team
together we would have these all hands
meetings where when I I I would talk to
reps and I'd ask them about a renewal
and they would say that's not my job
that's a problem and we do these all
hands meetings that say raise your hand
if you are on the renewals team and just
the renewals team would raise their hand
and we did this thing like get the whole
company to raise your hands it's the
most important Motion in SAS is your
renewals motion if you have a problem
there you can really put yourself into a
desk spiral great I have a couple
follow-ups and like coming in as an
executive to that and influencing it and
also how the process you guys you all
went through to diagnose that this was a
product issue and like the research you
did to figure out what needed to be
enhanced if you can watch through that
but let's start with you're coming in
you're like the new guy on the
Block you probably can't walk into the
board meeting and be like yeah the sales
issue is in product that's going to
politically piss a lot of people off
like how did you handle that yeah so I
left Salesforce 6 years ago and I think
that one of the things I've seen where
my friends have left a place like
Salesforce and many of us maybe stumbled
on our first role I I did after I came
out and I would take that job again I
would do some things differently but I
made some mistakes there and the mistake
that I made that's the classic mistake
that a lot of I think Revenue leaders
make when they leave a big successful
company like Salesforce is what I refer
to as the game and the game within the
game so the game that we are playing as
Revenue leaders is to deliver the number
it's real simple it's a very binary job
that we have either you're successful or
you're not but when I've seen people not
do well in that first job after leaving
a place like Salesforce is generally
what I call the game within the game
which is the way we show up as a part of
the executive team the way we interact
with the board and when you see
challenges in the business that are
maybe outside of your domain my job is
to lead the sales organization but if we
have challenges with product or with
customer success or with marketing the
way that you drive consensus the way
that you get everyone on board with that
is often where people move themselves
out of a job where maybe they're winning
in the game itself you might be doing
well against the target but you're
failing on the game within the game and
I think that's probably the biggest
lesson I've learned in my six years
since leaving the big company is like
how do you get everyone on board with
what your vision is for the company and
where you're seen challenges and I think
the big thing that I did when I was at
tanium I was vocal about some things
that were outside of my domain within
the first few months and that didn't go
very well for me because it makes it
seem that you're taking your eye off the
ball and I was not but if you have a
quarter that's tough then the board and
the executive team has to wonder is our
sales leader on top of what we hired
him to do uh and so when I got to box a
lot of these challenges I think
presented themselves uh but my thinking
was coming off of the prior experiences
I'm really just going to take notes on
everything that I'm hearing about what's
going on in the market and then I'm
going to validate it with first-party
experience I'm going to go meet with
customers in all segments and all
verticals all around the world and I'm
going to validate what the sales team is
telling me because the sales team will
tell you things that aren't always true
they they'll tell you things that they
want you to fix that maybe it's just one
deal recent bias is a big problem so
after validating all of that and then
hopefully building a good relationship
with the executive team and the board
after a year I said hey here's I think
some things that I think we need to
focus on and then I think by waiting
that was the right move because then we
got the whole team on board and to make
that big of a shift as a company it was
a pretty big strategic pivot for us we
needed everyone together it couldn't be
like one or two Executives pushing it
I'm going to squeeze in like a little
sub bullet question there too cuz like
it and I'll let you think about it and
make a point real quick mark But if you
were to if a Founder was to look at
Salesforce for a leader you probably
could see some people over there that
would be great at jumping into a startup
and some that wouldn't be and like how
how should a Founder look at that right
before you do that um I to Mark's point
like I got some I watched some great
coaching from uh an adviser that was
coaching a team and he explained the
difference between a functional leader
and a corporate executive and that's an
important transition that you need to
make when you get the sea level position
when you're like a director of sales and
you're in the sales or you're liveing
sales all day you're with the sales team
you're just thinking about sales but
once you become
C you're going to get into trouble if
you see your role on the senior
leadership team to represent the needs
of your people you're going to get into
some trouble you need to look at it as a
corporate executive yes when you are out
with your team you're leading your team
but when you're in the senior leadership
team meeting you're a corporate
executive where you everybody should
remove their biases toward their
function and operate as a single team
toward a Northstar and I think we're
hearing a great example of that uh from
Mark so Mark like for over a decade so
many VCS have come in and be like okay
here's a series B now go find someone at
Salesforce and hire them as your head of
sales so tell us like as you go through
all your peers over there what should a
Founder be looking for there to hire
someone out of a big company that would
work and what should they look like as a
red flag yeah it's a great question so
if you're thinking about hiring someone
from a big company your target employer
might be a Salesforce it might be
another great SAS company out there the
common thing that Founders the common
conversation that Founders have is like
was she going to be able to work in this
environment or was he going to be able
to keep up with us or work in a startup
and there's almost this undertone of
It's like work ethic or something which
I've always found really comical my 10
years at Salesforce I work 365 days a
year the work was intense like I didn't
have a blood pressure problem before I
went there but when I came out I sure
did and it's so like the idea of being
able to keep up is I always found funny
and when you work at a place like that
you're not like overloaded with
resources I was booking my own travel
and managing my own calendar and doing
my own expenses it was work like we we
were working the thing that actually is
that people struggle with when they Lo
when they leave a place like that is
when you work for a company that's
really well-run and you have first-party
experience of things being done right
and then you go to a startup where
things are resource constrained then
what ends up happening is that some
Executives struggle with the resource
constraint so if you've seen a marketing
event maybe a customer event like this
done the right way or you've done a CIO
dinner the right way or you know how to
do territory carving the right way then
when you go to an environment where it's
not that things aren't being done right
but they're just not resourced and if
there's 10 things that you're used to
doing the right way and you can only
afford because of bandwidth to do three
of them the right way I think the thing
that with some people when they leave a
big company is that they have a a fit
when they can't have everything done the
right way it's not that they can't keep
up and that they're not working hard and
they're not willing to roll up their
sleeves and get down and dirty it's that
they have sometimes not the right level
of sort of patience and accepting that
we're just not going to be able to do
everything the way that I'm used to and
at box there's all sorts of things that
I would like to be doing differently but
we're all living in a rule of 40 World
now and we can't go fund every little
thing that I think would make a
difference you you have to choose what
are the three things that we're going to
do really well and I'm just going to
have to let go of these other seven
things beautiful all right thank you so
much you have busy jobs out there and we
really appreciate you coming out and
spending time to drop knowledge let's
thank our panel thank
you